Okay.
So I have two files open in voice code on the right hand side.
I have our index case file in our store folder where we have configured all of our logic regarding view
X.
And on the left hand side I have our job listings component.
Now as a reminder, this is the component where we are currently fetching our jobs.
We're doing so in this mounted lifecycle hook right here.
This is now the logic that we also have in our get jobs function.
And once we receive that array of jobs, we are writing it to a local data property or in other words,
local component state.
Right here we have this jobs array, it starts out empty and they are overwriting it here.
And our initial goal was to move all of this logic away from job listings and now into view X and now
we have that functionality to do that.
So what I'd like to do in this lesson is swap this so that we're no longer relying on local state,
but rather relying on this array right here.
All right, so let's start putting those pieces together and we'll talk through them step by step.
So the first thing I'm going to do is right here, I'm going to import that helper function called Map
State.
The reason we're going to need Map State is because we're going to need to map or connect part of our
view store state to our component.
So this is going to come from View X.
And what we need to connect to, of course, is this jobs data property right here in our view X Store.
So right here, I'm going to comment out our data.
We're going to remove it entirely just a second.
But just to show you everything side by side here I have this and then computed right at the bottom
here.
What I'm going to do is invoke that map state helper function.
And as a reminder, the way this works is this returns an object and we want to make sure to do structure
those properties in that object.
So they all are part of our top level computed properties.
And then the simplest way to use Map State is to provide an array, and then that array has strings
representing or the view store properties that we want to make available as computed properties on this
component.
So by simply writing jobs right here, I am referencing this jobs array right here and now this component
will have access to this dot jobs in this component, but it's no longer referencing this thing.
It's referencing our view X store jobs array.
All right and whenever this piece updates so well the computed property right here okay similarly we
no longer want to make this API call anymore in our mounted lifecycle hook.
What do we want to do?
We want to run this action, the fetch jobs action, because what is this asynchronous action going
to do?
It's going to run our get jobs function.
It's going to get that array of jobs asynchronously.
It's going to wait as long as it needs.
Then it's automatically going to commit a mutation which will save the new array of jobs to our UCS
store.
And once that updates what's going to happen, our computed property will update and this component
will get those changes.
And once it has those jobs, it'll be able to do the exact same thing it's always been doing, which
is iterating over all of them.
In this case, it's displayed jobs, but the same logic will apply.
It's going to be able to iterate over them and render those job listings as a reminder.
Display Jobs is reliant on this type jobs, and this type jobs will still exist.
We're just going to get it from a different place.
The View Store.
So right here in our mounted lifecycle, look, I'm going to remove this code.
And you may recall that every component has access to a dollar sign store property.
And the only thing that's left to learn is how do we run an action?
What we learned earlier in the course that if we want to run a mutation, we have to call the commit
method for an action.
We have a similar method, but a different name, and that method is dispatch.
And what dispatch accepts is the name of an action as a string.
It works basically the exact same way as Commit does, except commit is for mutations and dispatch is
for asynchronous actions.
So we have to give this method the name of the action we want to run, which is fetch jobs, which you
which we have conveniently available as an export of the string constant right here.
So to avoid typing this in line and making any accidental mistakes, I'm going to scroll back up.
And here what I'm going to do is I'm going to import.
My thatch job's constant.
And that's going to come from our index just file in our store folder.
So right here, the source directory, the store directory in there that's going to reference the index
asphalt.
We're going to import this constant.
And right here, we're going to dispatch fetch jobs.
So what this is telling is view X, run the fetch jobs action.
And that will make our asynchronous request.
All right.
With that, we can delete our former reference to data right here.
We know, know.
Look, we no longer have this local component data we don't care about.
And this component is no longer using Axios.
So we can remove Axios right here.
And that's it.
All right.
One more time before we go to the browser.
I know I'm being a little redundant, but I just want to explain the entire flow of how this is going
to work from step one to step ten.
So step one, this component is going to render in a browser, which means Vue is going to run the mounted
lifecycle look, that mounted lifecycle hook is going to talk to the book store and dispatch an action
of fetch jobs that's going to kick off this fetch jobs action, which is basically just an asynchronous
method that Vue X will pass a context object to this asynchronous method.
It will rely on our get jobs function to fetch our data from our backend, in this case Jason server.
And once it receives that data, no matter how long it takes, it's then going to commit a mutation.
It's going to run the receive jobs mutation right here, passing in the new array of valid job listings.
What's going to happen when the mutation launch is it's going to overwrite the View Store State.
So now it's going to set the jobs property to our new array, which means this state is now going to
be an actual right.
And now our map state function is going to realize, hey, the view store state changed this to jobs
is now something different.
It used to be a regular array, an empty.
Right now it's an array of 100 jobs.
So it's going to recalculate itself, which means the state jobs will be something new, which means
our displayed jobs computed property, which depends on the state jobs, will also have to rerun and
reevaluate because this value is changed.
Any time state changes Vue reruns, right?
That's the whole reactivity principle.
When Thing A updates, thing B notices and updates itself as well.
That's the whole idea of reactivity display jobs will re update to have this slice of the first ten
jobs of our new array of 100 values.
We're going to render that and that's what we're going to see in the browser.
So let's head back to Chrome.
Let's refresh this page now with our new code.
And we can see that everything is still working.
All right.
Let me show you as well that if I open up my view DevTools and I go and explore my job listings component
if this thing will work, which sometimes it does not.
Let me see if I can refresh here and get some changes going.
All right.
Give me just a minute to figure this out.
Okay.
So I think I figured it out.
I moved from the View X panel to the components panel.
There we go.
Here we have a list of all of our components.
Very silly mistake by me.
And of course, in my job results view, in that component, I have all of my components.
And in the top level job listings component, you'll notice we have all of our computed properties,
and below we have this new section called the View X Bindings.
And this is our reference to the jobs property coming from View X, coming from our store.
So by expand this, it's going to be the exact same hundred jobs that we saw earlier.
But now they're residing within our View X Store and we are connected to them in this component.
And all we're doing is slicing the first ten jobs from that.
All right.
Everything still works.
If I navigate to my next page and fill going to slice the next ten jobs, but I'm going to slice them
from a different set of ten from the exact same view array.
So nothing has changed.
We're just changing where our data is being stored.
It's now in view X, it's now not in a component.
So now this component has no local job state.
It's only a computed property coming from you.
X Your view x devtools will tell you this, by the way.
All right.
And just to show that everything worked, if I go to view X.
Here's the U.S. state.
We can see we have our jobs array right here, which means that our entire async process worked.
We ran the action.
We got the jobs.
We committed to the synchronous mutation to get this right here.
And the beautiful part of this approach, again, is of ten other components, care about what jobs
is.
As soon as this updates, all ten of those components will be aware of that change.
All right.
So this is sort of our centralized source of truth.
This is where we keep all that global data and that components can rely on it and send messages that
they want to update it, such as mutations or actions, etc. And any component can talk to you and you
will distribute those changes to anybody who cares.
That is the genius part of this view X design.
All right, so we see that everything is working in our browser.
Unfortunately, our new implementation will break some of our tests, so we're going to go ahead and
fix them in the very next lesson.